Group 1

Ecosystems:

Start with exercise.

Don't get in to Evangelism wars pick what people around you are doing

Reasons
- exercises
- testimonials / why are you here?
- list of questions
- run through a checklist; a list of questions to ask people
    possibly a good/better/best list
    concept based list, no reference to a particular tool chain
    organize list with Organize. Document. Publish.
    could use the list as we go through the workshop e.g. this section we're teaching will address questions 6-10
    
 - an admission that it will be difficult, or you won't probably have done everything
    you won't reach 100%; each project should be better than the last one

Checklist - also a rubric?
organize list 

Plot of time versus 
https://github.com/tracykteal/shell-genomics/blob/master/img/gvng.jpg
what is in that space between the linear increase and the leveling off

Idea for unconference topic:
- organization of analysis files and paths that you don't end up using
The process of a project is not a line with a bunch of nodes, but a bush with a lot of dead branches
- data sharing
There are a lot of different resources for data sharing. What is the space and what are pros, cons, limitations of each, Docker, Amazon Glacier, institutional - library
  input from librarians; conceptual data lifecycle
- badges
having completion badges and accomplishment badges
- how to / if to teach github
need for a layer on top of github to make it more accessible or work with scientific project workflows?

Organization
Bill Noble's paper to read before workshop
Guided example based presentation from instructor
  There are key concepts and the instructor is going to go through the example demonstrating
  the implementation of these key concepts
Example of an untidy project
Everyone has it and then work together or on your own to tidy it up
Get back together and discuss what you've done and why
Have 15 minutes to work on tidying your own data
Get in to pairs, explain what you did and see if questions came up or ask for feedback
Deprecation of code, data and tools.
Backups!
nicercode.github.io/blog/2013-04-05-projects/

Publish
Break up in to groups and talk about the value and risks of being open

Artifacts - figures, graphs
intermediate data?
Data sharing - Dryad, FigShare, iPlant, SRA, MGRAST, github
Software sharing - github
Versioning
Metadata archiving
Data archiving
(differences between sharing and archiving)
Analysis sharing
Software licenses
Data restrictions
HIPAA - human subjects
self generating tutorial


github




